---
title: "Dubrovnik Walking Tours"
description: "Honeymoon Day 3"
date: 2016-07-14T00:00:00+01:00
---

Early start to head into the city for some walking tours. Uh-oh, my big lens
isn’t in the camera bag. I’d been swapping lenses as we watched the sunset over
the bay and I’d left it on the table as we went home. I darted across to the
restaurant before we went for breakfast, unfortunately it was closed. I spent a
few minutes trying different entrances, looking in to see if my lens was still
on the table but without success. Hopefully it’ll be there later. Swift
breakfast and on to the #4 bus.

The bus driver doesn’t look very happy with me, “too big”, “smaller” he’s doing
his best to convince me to use the correct change for the bus fare. I’m not able
to help though. Our bus driver is huffing and puffing. Martina and I are not
sure what to do, we’re figuring that we’ll go find the #6 bus-stop but hoping
that won’t make us too late for the walking tour. Our bus driver seems to have
other ideas however, he’s shut the door behind us and started moving. We’re
suggesting he lets us off, but he keeps moving and asking for the correct
change. Mixed signals. Eventually, and grumpily, he gives us our tickets and
change. We promise to have the correct change next time.

Marco is our tour guide for the Walls and Wars tour. It’s a lap of the almost 2
kilometres of the city walls. Marco is a local to Dubrovnik and was 4 years old
when he was evacuated with his mother in during a brief ceasefire in the war.
Marco is a fun character, confident in his own skin he is almost somehow dancing
while he walks. Arms stretched out to his sides. As we visit different spots on
the circuit of the walls we’re told different stories about the founding of the
city, the construction of the impressive defences and a fair amount of detail on
the more recent conflict.

As you look inland, the hills to the right, which is to the east, perhaps a
little bit south, is from where the Serbian army bombed this place during
Yugoslavia’s recent civil war. It’s quite chilling imaging what it would have
been like as you can see it’s far enough away to be somewhere else, but it’s
really not that far, we’re at the front line and it’s scary.

For hundreds of years the city walls of Dubrovnik have proved to be an
impregnable barrier to the outside wall. The advent of more modern rocket
delivered explosive payloads has meant that at least since world war one, the
defence provided by city walls is no longer able to shield the inhabitants as
confidently. This I remember vividly understanding from playing the game
Civilisation (specifically Civilisation 2) with Ben, Kev and Carl when the
advent of the Howitzer invalidates the protection provided by city walls. In our
typical games, our respective nations would typically see the relative peace
disintegrate once one of the players achieved that milestone.

We’re made to understand that the bombing of Dubrovnik was a needless one: the
place holds no military strategic value, nor did it have any great tactical
value at that stage in the war. The Croatian forces had held other positions and
so in frustration the Serbian forces decided to attack this easy target. As
we’re told these things, fairly consistently Marco uses an accent of mock
grandeur while describing the behaviours of the different competing armies, kind
of how you might expect a cartoon version of the history to sound. It’s fun,
it’s engaging but to me it’s also a sign that the memories are relatively raw.
1991 was 25 years ago, that’s not very long ago at all.

The old walled city of Dubrovnik sits jutted out into the water, directly inland
towering above is Srđ Mountain. It’s to the left of the hills where the Serbian
forces were bombing the city. It’s atop this mountain where the Croatian forces
fought back from. There is a not very glamorous looking military building
visible and a cable car up to the top from somewhere just outside the walls.

A huge fraction (I don’t recall exactly perhaps it was 80 to 90%?) of the
buildings were damaged during the conflict. we’re shown how to identify the
original tiles: they are a little yellower having been bleached in the sun over
the many hundreds of years. We stare out across the rooftops, most are orange.
Marco points out one or two of the original examples but finding my own is
tough, there really aren’t many.

We’re told there are seven towers punctuated around the wall. We’re introduced
to each as we meet them. How thick the walls are, when they were built, when
they were extended, which (typically Italian) architect designed it and what the
specific purpose of this particular tower has been over the years.

Although the walls no longer provide protection to the buildings inside, it
turns out they did provide protection to the inhabitants during the bombings and
the towers were used as shelters. We move from the tower by the port
anticlockwise. The rooftops are beautiful. The third tower is the tallest. We
stand in the shade as Marco shares the details of this particular tower. In the
top we’re stood in the Kuna, the crown. I enjoyed noticing that this word is the
same word as the currency here: Kunas.

As the day continues it gets hotter and hotter. We move around to the south
where the walls overlook the sea. There is a fortress across the water not
connected to the walls. This unusually has one wall built not as thick as the
others. The reason for this is due to the concern that the mercenaries hired to
work defending Dubrovnik may one day decide to overthrow their employers and
take control. Should that ever have happened (it didn’t) the thin wall could be
attacked from the mountain.

We notice people hanging out their windows putting wet clothes on washing lines
operated by pulleys. There’s an unusual shaped basket ball court, built where
archeological excavations have recently identified the foundry. A bar outside
the city walls facing the sea. An island owned by a monastery.

Many of the stories are about Dubrovnik fending off attacks from the Venetians.
Dubrovnik neighboured the empire and repeatedly refused to become part of it.

Back around by the old port we’re shown the quarantine. During one of Europe's
deadly plagues the cunning people of Dubrovnik discovered that they could defend
their city from the disease by quarantining visiting traders for 40 days before
allowing them into the city. Should they show symptoms of the disease during
this time they would not be allowed in. This meant that at a time when many
cities were closing their doors, Dubrovnik stayed open to trade and was able to
become fantastically wealthy.

Stories that weren’t about Venetians or the breakup of Yugoslavia were about the
Ottoman empire. On the occasions that Dubrovnik wasn’t defending itself from the
Ottoman empire they were actually the only Christian country allowed to trade
with the empire, another lucrative situation.

A fantastic tour very interesting, finishes in the port. To escape the roaring
midday sun Martina and I find a quiet alleyway with tables outside a restaurant
for lunch. We have french fries and beer a nice light lunch then back to the
meetup point for our second walking tour.

Just inside the city’s main entrance “pile gate” is a map of the city
illustrating all the damage done in 1991. First stop inside is the water
fountains, our guide encourages us all to fill up our bottles and points out the
remains of the aqueduct that used to supply this fountain.

The perimeter inside the city walls were given to two respective religious
organisations, notion being that they would serve as an extra layer of defence
to any attacker lucky enough to get through the city walls. Indeed the nearby
island Lokrum served a very similar purpose at one point when the Vatican
intervened putting pressure on the Venetians after they took control of it.

When the city was originally founded by Latin speaking Romans, it was called
Ragusa. Rather than having kings and queens instead Ragusa had 33 noble
families. Efforts to ensure the noble blood was kept pure meant that eventually
those families have now all died off. The south side of the current city was the
original city. On the north side at some point Slavic settlers took up
residence. At first there was animosity between the two cities but over time the
two cities merged into one.

Most of the streets are narrow. One we’re shown is a little wider, this is the
street that grain was brought along from the port to the granary. On this street
lived Dubrovnik’s most famous writer. He wrote a comedy about a man from Ragusa
who went to Rome to study, after repeatedly writing home to ask for more money
his father sent someone to investigate how he was managing to spend all his
money. It turns out he’d fallen in love with a prostitute and was spending all
his money visiting her. The punchline was that she was from Ragusa too.

We’re shown the old Jewish quarter, the old synagogue.

The main square has a statue of Roland the mascot of free cities in pole
position. Behind that the church of the city's patron saint Blaize and beyond
that the cathedral, all facing the customs house. Liberty is in the motto of the
city and only after that does religion have its importance.

Not a bad walking tour, perhaps the beer at lunch or the hot afternoon sun
reduced our attention, whatever the reason not as memorable as the morning tour
but certainly worthwhile.

We take the bus back home, an American of Croatian descent tells us a brief
history of how he came to live here, he shared thoughts on how the governments
here in the Balkans are a rota of crooks and expressed approval on the current
shake-ups in UK politics, fresh blood.

We call into last night's restaurant and a relieved look on the waitresses face
immediately gave away the fact that my lens was in safe hands.

In the evening we visit a restaurant claiming to have the best pizza in town, it
was OK. Martina had perhaps half of a very filling lasagne. Stuffed we wander
back to the hotel and watch the band, good female singer, widdly talented fella
on keyboards and a bloke on sax who didn’t play all that much. Once they
finished we went to bed for a well earned rest.
