---
title: "Ljubljana Walking Tours"
description: "Honeymoon Day 10"
date: 2016-07-21 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
draft: true
---

Breakfast is on the first floor, the buffet is spread across two places: the
custom built tables in front of the lift with rectangular refrigerated trays and
cheese; and the tables around the corner with cereals and honey and various bits
and bobs.

The first walking tour of the day meets at the Pink church. It’s already pretty
warm and there is a fairly big crowd hiding out in the shade on the steps to the
pink church. We’re welcomed by a woman speaking over a small amp, she separates
us into 4 or 5 roughly equal sized groups. Our group is put into the hands of
Daniel, kind of short, squinting, he takes us into the shade across the square
and talks to us from in the sunshine. It’s OK, he’s used to it. We warm to him
very quickly, he’s funny.

We’re told that the pink church is the luckiest church in Slovenia. We’re told
its denomination and age (if I ever decide to try remember this stuff, I’ll need
to take notes at the time). Then Daniel explains its luck: while this is now the
main square, when the church was built, the main square was elsewhere and we’ll
visit that later. So piece of luck #1: built on a non-consequential street, now
on the main square. In fact people often think it’s the cathedral of Ljubljana;
nope, it’s just a church, we’ll also see the cathedral later.

In 1895 Ljubljana suffered a fairly devastating earthquake. Although not the
strongest earthquake we might have heard of, many of the buildings were no match
and so were destroyed. The pink church was fine though, it was well built. Piece
of luck #2.

Daniel points out the various buildings that were erected/rebuilt following the
earthquake in Secessionist style (what we’d call Art Nouveau), having gotten us
acclimatised to the decorative hallmarks he points out another building as a
trap, and in doing so introduces us to another theme of the tour: cheeky
Slovenian opportunism. Upon closer inspection, the building is indeed a more
plain, flat building with frills painted on to match the others in this new
square. The story goes that the owner put up scaffolding along with his
neighbours following the earthquake and was given money by the (Austrian?)
authorities to help rebuild, even though his property was relatively undamaged.

Back when the church was surviving the earthquake, Ljubljana was the capital of
a small province of the Austrian empire. Following that Yugoslavia won
independence and while Ljubljana was still a small regional capital, it was
independent. After the breakup of Yugoslavia a new country called Slovenia that
had never existed before came into being. While there are certainly similarities
between the language here and the neighbours, the unifying element that made
Slovenians feel allegiance to this new country, that had never existed before,
was the old language. Putting that into the context of the pink church and it’s
luck (part #3): it started life on a backstreet of a provincial town and is now
on the main square of a national capital. Well done pink church!

There’s a statue, true to form and celebrating the unifying elements of the
country: he’s not any form of celebrated war hero, no, he’s a poet. The statue
features him standing up looking important, with his muse pointing over his
shoulder. We’re told that she lived across the square and see a relief of her
looking out a window at the house she used to live in.

Among the details of the city, Daniel interleaves details about himself, he
studied History, he took some time to do so, he’ll tell us more about that
later.

The square is pedestrianised now but has only been so for the last 7 or 8 years.
I count up and figure there must have been traffic when I first visited. Back
when the road had traffic, Ljubljana’s favourite architect Plečnik was given the
job of replacing the main bridge. He decided he liked the bridge so instead
built two siblings either side creating the triple bridge we see today. Daniel
points out the small pillars and indicates we should watch out for more as
Plečnik might have been a little over obsessed with pillars. Repeat after me
“Plečnik, Plečnik”, another theme?

Over the river and to the left is the covered market. Pillars. Who might have
built this? “Ple-, Pla-, Pli-?” C’mon guys it’s Plečnik! Repeat after me...

Along the river is the Butcher's Bridge, so called because the Butchers used to
sell their meat here just outside the market because it’s cheaper than going in
the market (cheeky Slovenian opportunism). This one wasn’t built by Plečnik but
is connected to his covered market. It has a glass bottom on the sides and
statues on and around the bridge. Daniel talks us through the statues, I can’t
remember the stories (notebook!).

The next bridge is the Dragon bridge. We’re told 2 stories as to why dragons,
one mythical and one practical. We’re told that the bridge was built in 1901,
but the years inscribed on the side are 1848 and 1888. Surely Ljubljana was too
busy rebuilding still to concern themselves with building new bridges? The
explanation is once again cheeky Slovenian opportunism: to get funding it was
originally pitched as a celebration of the Jubilee of the emperor, and to ping
on the radar it had to be of notable construction and so was one of the first
steel and concrete bridges built.

Back through the market Daniel picks up some Sauerkraut to share. Err. The
Cathedral is pretty interesting. In the walls are old Roman tombstones found
when the cathedral was being built. The door has a terrific complex relief
commemorating the Slovenian language and history, Pope JP cut the ribbon. The
artist is featured down in the corner.

Water fountain, refill.

Next up a walk along the old town square. Thanks to the earthquake, it doesn’t
look particularly older than anything we’d seen so far. All the same Daniel
points out what to look for to identify older looking buildings and newer ones.

“Look up at the castle, the view is great up there, you should go, I’m too lazy
to take you”

We’re shown the shoemaker's bridge, it has pillars, not even supporting
anything, just pillars from the bridge upwards, who do we think might have built
this? Plečnik! Back in the day, this bridge was slightly out of town, as such
the cheeky opportunistic Slovenian shoemakers could sell their footwear without
paying taxes.

Congress square is a rectangular park area with square and diagonal pathways,
like a union jack and grand buildings lining the edges. We’re stood between the
theatre and the university. Daniel shares a few details about the theatre and
moves onto some more detail about the university.

Studying in Slovenia is free, a pleasant hangover from the communist days.
Ljubljana has one of the country’s most popular universities; as we’ve seen it’s
also a pretty nice place; this combination means students often don’t complete
their studies as quickly as possible, typically (as did our guide today)
finishing in their 30s. Daniel’s body language on this topic is an unusual
cocktail: shy; proud; clearly pitching for a laugh; a genuine and sincere
attempt to share a flavour of Slovenian life (I think our Slovenian friend
Nataša was 30ish and finishing her studies when I met her).

Towards the end of the tour we’re shown the library, built by… you guessed it:
Plečnik. It has a WWII story attached. This building was being built to replace
the previous library building which was getting too small. While it had a roof,
walls, stairs; at the point at which the German visitors were in town looking
for places to stay, it didn’t have that most library of library things: the
books. In order to prevent the building being repurposed, a chain of people
shuttled books into the library overnight. Cheeky Slovenians!

This tour finishes up in a former monastery, now arts centre. Religious anything
wasn’t popular with the communists and so following WWII the building fell into
decline. Plečnik was asked to spruce the place up. By today’s standards he’s
meant to have done a good job. By the day's standards he certainly incorporated
communist imagery, Daniel points out hammers and sickles and the like. Even so,
something wasn’t to the taste of the new bosses around here and Plečnik wasn’t
booked to do any more Architecting after this gig.

We both very much enjoyed the tour, checked the time figured we have enough time
for some fast food and just about enough spare to make the next walking tour.
McDonald's, chip butty, double-hop down to the other end of the old town.
There’s a gathering of touristic looking people, we approach gingerly: unable to
see the golden spraycan we’re looking out for. There’s a dude with dreaded hair
and baggy hippy trousers, must be the place? He shows us the spray can and
indicates that the slight change of location is based on where the shade is.

I can’t recall Mr Graffiti’s name so shall call him “dude”. Dude explains that
in this part of town, virtually all street art gets covered over very quickly to
maintain the old town vibe, except… above our heads on an actually very
prominent balcony.

Dude walks us up to an alleyway, indicates that he’s going to share some
history, some of the lingo and show us lots of interesting street art.

Markings on walls started here during the communist era, anti and pro communist
words, well formed letters, nothing much artistically but expression all the
same. We’re shown some ye olde photos.

A similar back and forth still occurs today, he shows us an anti-refugee hate
marking, which was subtly tweaked into an pro-refugee marking, which was less
subtly tweaked back to anti-refugee, which was then mostly obliterated with an
egyptian Ra (a backwards R with an eye in the circle), for which dude suddenly
becomes much more precise about the date.

“Bob is awesome” to “Bob is NOT awesome” to “BAweSomE” to “Ra!”

The extra precision was due to the last update being done on an evening where
dude had done a tour the day before and day after; on the first of which some
egyptian guests on the tour took particular interest in this exchange; and may
have enquired as to where one might purchase spray cans. Dude tells us also that
Ra means peace.

Straight nose, big nostrils, this is a crew from Maribor, we recognise the nose,
there was a fella with that nose yesterday near the outdoor gig with the bass
player.

A small dot. Look out for it, there are lots. One guy, he just does small dots.
It’s his signature. Martina turns out to be pretty good at spotting them.

A green t shaped cross with a diamond, that’s the local football hooligans.

‘Piece is short for Masterpiece, not as your ears might have heard ☮ peace.
Here’s a commissioned ‘piece celebrating ✌ peaceful stuff and Ljubljana: there’s
Martin Luther King Jr.; a thumbs up and thumbs down pair of hands: that’s in the
shape of LJ for Ljubljana; words and swirls.

Back towards the triple bridge we see Svemir at his shop, yay! He says we’ve
just missed Nataša, doh. She’ll be back in 10 minutes but we have to make our
apologies and catch back up with the tour.

Down the road with the umbrella lady, there are shoes on overhead cables,
“shoefiti” (his word not mine) started in Ljubljana with a shoe-shop advertising
their whereabouts. Now it’s fun.

A ‘piece is graded on how good it looks, how big it is and how difficult it is
to get to. Above the shop to our left is a ‘piece notable because it must have
been pretty treacherous getting up there.

Further along towards the studio we once stayed in on our Christmas visit to
Ljubljana is a wall with lots of very detailed and clearly talented ‘pieces.
Dude tells us that the person who lives at the house has given the graffiti
artists free reign to decorate, as long as they don’t paint on the entrance
wall. Where artists have strayed onto the entrance wall, you can see grey and
off grey where others have covered it back up in line with her wishes.

Behind this wall is the old communist era bike factory, now lived in by
squatters and full of graffiti. Every once in awhile the authorities indicate
they are sending in the demolition crew and reclaiming the land and get turned
away. This has happened fairly recently provoking some of the ‘pieces. There’s a
roman warrior with a shield featuring the old bike company logo. It’s visibly a
very classically artistic piece, the creator studied illustration.

The grand finale is a place we’re very familiar with: Metelkova. Also run by
squatters, a former army barracks left to rot after the breakup of Yugoslavia.
Also has an attempted demolition story, this time with physical evidence: one of
the walls under a window hole has been knocked out. There’s a statue of David
there now and a mosaic pattern across the wall.

Before we go, we ask about a tweety bird we like, it’s by the pony mafia, a girl
crew fighting back at the overly macho graffiti scene.

We head back to see Nataša and Svemir, he’s still there but Nataša’s gone now.
We have a little catch up and he shows us some photos of their visit to his
hometown, it looks cool.

Very tiring day, we head back to the hotel for a siesta.

In the evening we watched people dancing on a temporary dance floor setup on the
road just inside the pedestrianised area towards the pink church. We enjoyed a
pint each and watched for a good while, some talented dancers, all very
competent with their feet.
