---
title: "Visit Rastoke in Slunj and Trip to Ljubljana"
description: "Honeymoon Day 9"
date: 2016-07-20 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
---

Nowhere near as early a start as yesterday, down to the restaurant for
breakfast. Corn flakes, toast, tea, baby croissantes. Same staff as the
evenings. Shop for provisions for the journey. Same staff as the evenings.
Check-out at the reception hut, I don’t recall whether it was the same staff as
a few days ago, but it’s as busy as when we checked in.

We’re leaving Croatia today. Thanks to the friendly lady at the hotel in Split,
we have a nice clear understanding of the route and a recommendation for
somewhere to stop on the way.

The route is along this same road, the number 1, the old main road, towards
Zagreb, then right, again towards Zagreb, along the E65 until we get to the E70
towards Slovenia and our destination today, and last of the trip: Ljubljana.

Way back here at the beginning though, 20 minutes up the road is our recommended
stop Slunj. I park up in a parking bay seemingly outside the police station,
there’s a small park, a tiny church, we follow our noses looking for the
fairytale village we’d had described to us and find another church and a fair
amount of non-fairytale functional concrete buildings. Me playing the role of
stereotype man keeps wandering and hoping to stumble across what we’re looking
for. Martina, sensibly spots the tourist information and we go inside.

Aircon, phew, it’s really hot outside. The lady inside is very friendly and
deciphers our request and explains that we need to drive just a little further
up the road to Rastoke. Back to the police station, in the car, up the road,
there’s no road sign indicating we’ve left Slunj, if these places were separate
villages once they appear now to be the same place.

I park up, get change for the parking meter from a restaurant that’s all made of
wood with adorable little bridges over flowing water. We’re in the right place.
I make the steep climb back to where the car is parked and put a ticket on the
dashboard. Find Martina back down the hill at a small shack selling handmade
wooden contraptions. Martina bought our nephew to be a wooden pull along bird
that flaps its wings as its wheels rotate. We go to explore and find a place
which has a bunch of things to see, it costs a few quid to get in which for some
reason surprises me but it also seems to hold the majority of the interesting
bits to look at so we go in.

We’re given a map numbered 1 to about 14 showing points of interest. There’s a
small historic mill with old original tools and labels explaining things
(mercifully for us: in English). Outside you can see it’s built over a tiny
stream that has plenty of water flowing over a small waterfall. We take selfies
and timer shots. There’s a few small wooden bridges over this stream, all very
picturesque. You can see the workings of the mill, half bowls (or quarter
spheres) attached to a wooden beam.

In the middle of the field (er, garden? Grass?) is a totem pole. It was left
behind from a movie filmed nearby a long time ago, set in native America. Pretty
cool. There’s a drone buzzing around. There’s also a guy taking photos of a
girl, not couple selfies, is she modeling? Who knows?

Along one side is a relatively wide (several meters) shallow waterway, with
occasional 1 foot drops, more selfies. Along the other side it’s more dramatic,
a waterfall a few meters high over on our right, passing along to the left. The
drone is buzzing around still. We see the fella controlling it with a tablet, he
doesn’t seem very approachable, perhaps it’s difficult to control and needs lots
of concentration. Or perhaps he’s not that friendly.

The waterfalls are really enjoyable to watch. We trace along the edge of the
grass looking down into the small valley that the water is travelling along.
There’s a small crater, thinking back now while writing perhaps a big tree was
here and has long since died and fallen down taking the earth around its roots
with it. At the time we were distracted by some flowerpot men sat around the
edges of the crater.

Back around and crossing the small stream again but further down there’s a fish
pond. Again small wooden bridges, this time without the small branches for
handrails.

A shed/museum. More stuff, less signs explaining the stuff. And an entrance to
the cave. I leave Martina up top and climb down. It’s mainly steps and handrail,
seems safe enough though I move carefully. It all starts off to the left as
you’re looking down at the river, then loops around to the right where there is
an archway sufficient to, it seems be called a cave. Inside it’s considerably
cooler than up top. It’s scorching midday sun up there and down here it’s
refreshingly chilled. The river is rocky and clear. It’s nice down here.

Back up top, we scoot around the remainder of the numbered points on the map,
check out the gift shop and climb the steep road back to the car.

I drive ahead instead of doing a u-turn and a couple of turns later we come out
at the same park and small church near the police station we’d parked at
earlier.

The journey up road number one is nice: trees, hilly, possibly the occasional
tunnel but generally flattening out the further we travel. Around the city of
Karlovac we leave our road number 1, continue to follow the signs for Zagreb and
join the motorway. We don’t go all the way to Zagreb, turning off to the road to
Slovenia instead. Around the border there are a couple of slow downs for tolls,
but having reduced to a small number of lanes, we pass the tolls without
stopping. Odd, but no complaints.

I don’t recall whether there was a border control passport check, there must
have been, and it must have been sufficiently uneventful to have not left an
imprint on my memory. Either way soon after we crossed into Slovenia, we stopped
off at a service station and got a pizza slice each. Helping out the staff are a
few small sparrows ensuring any plates left behind are empty of food.

Back on the road we flirt with the idea of taking a look around in Novo Mesto,
but decided against stopping. Time’s getting on and it’s nice to get where we’re
going before it gets dark.

I get quite excited when I realise that the tunnel we have just gone into comes
out in the Ljubljana we’re going to recognise. Yay! The satnav kindly gets us to
the hotel and I park up in the carpark next door. When we check in, we find out
the hotel have a parking service and we could have just parked up where the
taxis do. I show the driver to our car and he loops the one way system back to
the entrance. We unpack and head to the room.

Martina spends a little while devouring tripadvisor and I take snaps of the
castle from our window. There’s a knock at the door. Champagne! We drink it and
I star Martina’s shortlist of recommendations on the map on my phone.

We’ve never stayed this close to the centre before, this is really close. Past a
park, down a road we find a bar (recommended by Martina) with live music. It’s
familiar, we’ve been here before, but it was circus themed last time we were
here. We sit outside and watch the music. Dude playing bass guitar with extra
strings and a young lady singing. They are talented, perhaps music students?
After a few songs we shuffle onto vacated seats a little closer to the band.

We move on after the band finish and the stage is dismantled, no more music for
us here. Yay, the umbrella repair shop still exists, what a gem, hopefully we
can call in.  The pink church on the central square has an art installation
outside which is raining on those below, it’s refreshing walking under. Sneaky
McDonalds and onto the next tripadvisor recommended bar. We’ve also been here
before, it was the skeleton bar, we don’t want to believe it, that place was
great. The waiter confirms our suspicions and we decide to move on before
ordering. Sad face. It still seems cool but it’s quiet and we’re not enticed.

Across the river we visit, this time deliberately, a place we enjoyed before:
Bikofe. This place has also changed: there were lots of funny and interesting
photos and art on the walls last time we visited and this time the walls were
mostly bare, what a shame. It’s very busy, we get our beers and sit on a
doorstep over the road. We chatter away and Martina indicates she’s full. Long,
fun day, off we pop to bed.
