---
title: "Srđ Mountain Cable Car"
description: "Honeymoon Day 5"
date: 2016-07-15T00:00:00+01:00
draft: true
---

We indulge in a late breakfast after the full previous day. The weather has
become stormy, rain lashing down, thunder, lightening, periodic spells of
roasting sunshine then the wet weather again. I enjoy the show from the balcony
while reading my book in which I’m engrossed, a biography of Agent Zigzag.
Martina sleeps. It’s fun watching sunbathers run for cover when the downpours
happen. During one of the sunny spells we do a few leisurely lengths of the pool
then have a bit of a sweat in the sauna & steam room.

We have leftover pizza for lunch on the balcony. Take a trip up to the 10th
floor and from there onto the road behind the hotel and across to do a little
reconnaissance to the car hire place which we’ll need to visit tomorrow. We go
down the steep footway, mostly steps, all lined with beautiful flowers back down
to the main strip.

In the afternoon head to Tutto Benni for dinner, a restaurant that caught our
eye the previous evening but was on a half hour wait when we were hungry. The
pizza here was probably the actual best in town, interestingly the menu also had
dessert pizzas such as Nutella flavour. Martina melts doting on a chubby cheeked
baby. I notice the couple we were sat beside the previous evening are in this
restaurant.

We hop on the #6 bus and weave our way up to the cable car station. It’s not far
from sunset we should get a good view from the mountain. At the top it is windy!
There’s a very sweet family with very excited kids. We can see our hotel, out in
the nook of the bay on the right. Straight down is the old city looking
glorious. I look across to the ridge where the opposing army were stationed and
have a shudder.

Facing the other way is mountains, untamed peaks in all directions. Croatia is
only slim here, we might be looking into Bosnia.

The former military barracks is a big building that looks like it could do with
a bit of repair. We share a thought that we don’t like walking near it while the
wind is howling as fast as it was: we might have a brick land on us.

We nosey into the museum, it cost a bit to get in and we opted for not going in
this time preferring to watch the sunset.

Back overlooking the old town, we visit a big Christian cross. There’s a small
group of young Americans there, drinking alcoholic drinks and acting cool. It’s
probably for the best you don’t get to meet the teenager version of yourself.
One spots us struggling to take a selfie and kindly offers to make a touristic
snap for us.

The sun has properly set now and street lights illuminate the old town, it’s
very pretty. We have a few minutes waiting for the cable car to go back down.

We go back into the city via the other entrance by the old port (the not pile
gate?) We follow Martina’s nose, snaking down steep steps around backstreets I
think roughly the Jewish quarter. Martina spots a tiny and adorable looking bar.
Our first impression is that it’s full but once we go in we spot little nooks
and crannies that we can sit in. The barman seems kind, friendly and quiet, we
tuck ourselves up into a corner behind the bar and nosey around at all the
trinkets. We have a great people watching spot too, the bar fills up and seems
interesting. We indulge in one or two more beverages. Noting that there are
pictures on the wall that are the same people in several photos we ask the
barman who they are. It’s his family, on one side is the Dubrovnik troubadours a
band who represented Yugoslavia in the Eurovision song contest in the 1970s. On
the other wall family members from the other side. This bar is the oldest in
Dubrovnik, “Libertina” opened 40ish years ago. That’s why the white walls are
yellowy brown and there are so many trinkets.

A drunk guy walks in to use the toilet which appears to be in a cupboard in the
corner. He’s served a soft drink. Martina says “look how pretty that lady is” I
never really know how to respond to that one “oh yeah”.

There’s cool music playing, “who’s this?” “Pips, chips & videoclips” - I take
note, will have to have a listen out of this context and see if we still like
it.

Home, balcony, lightening, moonset, reading and bed. Lovely relaxed, windswept
day.
