---
title: "Lapad Resort Life"
description: "Honeymoon Day 2"
date: 2016-07-13T00:00:00+01:00
draft: true
---

We both love continental breakfast, and this hotel has all the favourites: baby
croissants, yoghurt, juice, corn flakes (not Kelloggs), an army of waiters and
waitresses bringing around hot drinks (our fella seems particularly smiley and
friendly), bread, rolls, cheese, honey. We sit outside facing the bay and eat
loads.

The last few weeks have been busy and tiring. Eating double breakfast is also
tiring. Travelling is tiring. After breakfast, Martina has a snooze on my
shoulder while I start reading Agent Zigzag on my phone, which I can reach
without waking Martina, unlike the nook. I get totally hooked on the book and,
when Martina woke up, switched to reading that on my nook instead of what I was
reading before.

We can see from the balcony that all the loungers by the pool are taken. Even so
we put on the calypso all day sun protection, caps, sunglasses and head down.
After just a couple of minutes sitting at the table by the bar we enquire with a
couple that appear to be moving whether we can have their loungers: we can. They
tell us local tips: where to get the busses from; that the driver doesn’t like
it when you try paying with anything other than correct change, but will
grumpily accept; that you can get cheaper tickets from the ticket booth next to
the bus stop and not have to deal with the driver being grumpy. They also tell
us they are next celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary, which is good
going: they don’t seem old enough.

Possibly the heat, possibly the double triple breakfast, we don’t have an
enormous appetite, and have a bowl of chips each for lunch.

I read and shuffle around to stay in the shade. Martina relaxes, reads and
shuffles around to stay in the sun. We both visit the pool a few times with a
lovely cooling effect every time. We repeat the cycle of bathing in the sun,
followed by bathing in the water, over the course of several hours until the sun
went behind the hotel. Very relaxed daytime.

Although the sun had gone behind our hotel, we could see that it was still
illuminating the other side of the bay and decided to wander over and watch the
sunset over a beer. On the way we talked to a young girl who was selling tickets
to a 3 island boat trip which sounded lovely with the exception of the meal at
the captain's house which sounded a little too seafood-y.

Along the bay was somewhere looking perfect for our sunset and beer: there was a
picture of a frozen glass with draft beer, mmm. Only drawback - it’s not a bar:
it’s a restaurant, you have to go around the corner for the bar. We realise that
actually food would be nice, find a nice spot, order pizza and watch the sunset.

Having enjoyed the meal (I helped Martina finish her pizza) we do a
reconnaissance trip to find the busstop mentioned by the couple earlier. We find
a different bus stop for the #4 bus which goes to the old city but doesn’t have
a ticket booth. Supermarket, water, beer, crisps and home for an early night.
