---
title: "Visit Trogir and Trip to Grabovac"
description: "Honeymoon Day 7"
date: 2016-07-18 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
---

After breakfast we chat to the lady on reception we’d spoken to the least. She
had always been engaged in work on the computer any time we passed before.
Previously she’d lifted her reading glasses and given us a smile and hello while
we were coming or going. Today as we’re checking out, she asks about what we’ve
been up to so far and what we plan to do next. She delightedly approves of what
we’ve gotten to see and gives us a few recommendations for places worth calling
in on close to our planned route.

In the garage as we collect the car, the excited little doggie comes out to wish
us a pleasant trip and to collect a little affection. We set course for Trogir,
in the same general direction as we’re going but via the coast road rather than
straight on the motorway.

Not even an hour away we pull into a car park beside the sea just outside the
old town of Trogir. It’s really hot by the time we arrive. We walk along the
waterside, cross a bridge onto the island containing the historic town and
wander down the narrow cobbled streets.

After not too long we stop at an ice cream shop. I visit the gents while Martina
sizes up the flavours. When I return Martina has assessed the ice cream
situation and reports that the shop over the road looks more appealing. Ice
creams in hand we wander some more, find a square with a church tower. We get
all the way across to the other side of the island, outside the city walls
appears to be deep water with large ships anchored. We can see along the city
wall at the other end of the island is a fortress. It’s way too hot to be out
here though, we go back inside and snake around the cobbled streets some more.

After zigging and zagging around, and finding the occasional interesting looking
shop, we accidentally find our way back to the entrance we came in. I think I’d
lost my bearings a little as I was trying to aim for the fort. I climbed the
steps above the entrance archway next to a statue, no doubt the patron saint of
this place and took some photos from this new interesting angle.

Martina found a lovely market stall with artwork by Marta whose email address is
Martina something. I encourage her to buy something from her namesake as it’s
lovely stuff, repeated themes but clearly, subtly, unique and hand drawn.
Martina goes for a postcard sized illustration of a miniature lady hanging from
a much larger umbrella with rain descending from inside it.

Outside the city walls we visit the Konzum, a brand we’re familiar with as we
saw a billboard much earlier in the trip indicating that it is “the Croatian for
supermarket” which we suspected was a lie. We collect journey snacks, fluids and
lunch. Across the road, back towards the old town is a covered market selling
flowers and fruit, we stroll through, out the other side where the water between
the island and here on the mainland looks like a river, visit the loo and head
back to the car and onto the road.

The journey starts off with a long slog uphill. This time without being
overtaken by speeding cars as we’re behind a truck. Most of the climb is rocky
and without much plant life. Eventually we get back onto the motorway. This time
more bridges than tunnels, and spectacular scenery, very green and striped with
rivers.

After a fair distance on the motorway we switch onto what back home would be
called A roads. Eventually we’re on road #1, the country’s old main road which
takes us all the way to where we’re headed. It’s nice, single lane but plenty of
room. Most people travelling faster than me and the speed limit, but all feeling
safe enough. We play a game of guess the country from the numberplate.

A Labrador walks out in front of our car and I successfully emergency brake. The
car behind me with the BiH number plate thankfully also stops. I feel pumped
with adrenaline for the next quarter of an hour. Martina and I reflect on how
surprising it was: the dog was big, the kind you’d expect to be smarter than to
walk out in front of a car.

The scenery is typically rocky and tree lined, still undulating but fewer (or
none) tunnels and bridges, on this road you go around or over. We pass through
the national park area for plitvice, our destination for tomorrow. A few towns
down we arrive at Grabovac, I get a little excited and turn off early and we
explore a lane that peters out after a few turns. Back on the road we turn off
at what seems to be signposted “Turist Grabovac” our accommodation while we’re
here. We park up, the moment the engine is off and the air con stopped the car
is instantly hot inside. We climb the steps and visit reception to check in. The
lady behind the counter seems dubious “I don’t think so, what’s your name?” and
“Where do you think you are staying?” we’re directed a little further down the
road and to the right place. A little odd: she appeared to be able to tell by
the look of us we were in the wrong place. I cannot fathom how though: it didn’t
strike me as a millionaires only gaffe, it was actually quite dated; perhaps it
was fully booked; or all pre booked guests were already checked in; or there
wasn’t any. Who knows?

At the actual place we’d booked (which the sat nav was attempting to take us to
all along) it’s part campsite and has a wooden hut for reception. It’s busy with
guests and staff and seems nice. Our room is also a wooden hut, perhaps 8 or 10
rooms per building, ours upstairs. No aircon, uh-oh. We flirt with the idea of
attempting something touristic today, such as visiting the caves, but we’re just
a little short on time and so get dinner instead.

Next door to the campsite is a shop and a restaurant. We get food: me pizza
again; Martina a big old, quite off puttingly fatty piece of mince (she asked
for a beefburger?! She didn’t even get a bun?!)

Martina, tripadvisor extraordinaire, event planner and fabulous researcher
sketches the plan out for tomorrow. The best time of year to visit the lakes are
pretty much any other time than now, this is due to the mammoth amount of other
tourists which will be there. Oops. That said, it is quite quiet at the very
beginning and end of the day. Martina suggests we get breakfast from the shop
instead of the restaurant breakfast so that we can leave earlier. Very early
start in mind we get to sleep early.
