---
title: "Trip to Split"
description: "Honeymoon Day 5"
date: 2016-07-16 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
---

We have our last breakfast at this hotel, last shower, last swim at the indoor
pool, pack our bags, check out (on the 10th floor) and wander (from there) up to
the car hire. Although certainly pleasant enough, this fella probably doesn’t
really seem too excited, I can’t imagine him pitching the boat trips down on the
touristic road to passers by. He and I fill in our respective bits of paperwork.
He checks our itinerary countrywise: turns out we don’t need to declare Bosnia
as part of the insurance if we’re only passing through the thin strip of Bosnian
land separating the exclave containing Dubrovnik from mainland Croatia. He
double checks “you’re not going to Mostar?” - “nope”. “OK” and he dutifully
saves us €50, thanks buddy!

“There’s a scratch here, there, there, under this, tank is 7 eights…” we’re
told. Oh boy, we got a banger.

I get into the continental driver's seat, attempt to use the door as both the
gear stick and the hand brake; and park the car. It’s a one way street so we
walk back up it to the hotel to retrieve bags, visit loo and enable the £5
euro-pass on my phone so I have adequate data available to use the phone as a
sat-nav.

All packed and ready to go, I hang back: Martina gets in the driver's seat,
notices the steering wheel and laughs. We tell the fella about a few other bits
of damage and hit the road, after I try to use the door as the gear stick and
handbrake a few more times.

Martina and I sing “Drive on the right” to the tune of “Jump in the Line” by
Harry Belafonte, we’re going to need this to help start the journey. Although
it’s actually a one-way street to begin with, one lane eventually opening out to
two. And I’m driving on the left, mercifully as alert as I’m going to be, but on
the cue of a car facing me on the same side of the road, I need to actually
Drive on the Right!

It doesn’t take us long to get out of the city. The roads mainly snake along the
coast with delicious views. The drivers consistently are not interested in the
speed limits. We see the 4 islands from the 3 or 4 island boat trips. Eventually
the road peels back from the coast. We’re on the road! Martina is kind and
encouraging while I get the hang of the car and the roads. She’s actually
sat-nav: I didn’t bring anything to clip my phone to the screen. We have the
voice on the directions “please turn lhhefft” we’re occasionally instructed in a
quite sleazy tone of voice.

Border controls, we flash our passports out the window and are waved on. There’s
a decent queue coming the other way. Whilst in the small strip of land granting
Bosnia access to the sea, we see very little until we reach the next border
control. I overshoot the window, lean out, get waved on. Another decent sized
queue coming the other way.

Now that we’re in mainland Croatia, it’s not long before we’re on a faster road,
and with the faster roads come tunnels and bridges: creating a relatively flat
ride out of a beautiful undulating landscape. In the tunnel I get a warning
light on the dashboard for the headlights, oh dear.

We take a pitstop at a quiet service station. I don’t quite recall whether there
was even a petrol station there or food. There was concrete picnic benches with
concrete shelters. There is a barrier which looks interesting as beyond the
barrier there’s a long way before the land comes back up. Interested to see
what’s down in the gap we have a look. No river is noticeable, there’s a road
along the bottom, perpendicular to the route we’ve come in along. Everything
else is green and rocky with the odd cluster of houses. This is a fairly remote
place, with a valley and mountains. which happens to have a motorway passing
through.

Split city driving ends the relatively straightforward roads we’d had for most
the journey. As we get closer to the hotel which is fairly central we notice a
reasonable number of people draped in various international flags. Martina had
found some shit-hot directions for parking on tripadvisor and we knowingly
entered a carpark next to the hotel. Checked in, moved the car to the small
indoor locked carpark linked to the hotel. There’s a small friendly doggie, a
2007 bikini babe calendar and a hoist. This used to be a workshop.

The staff at the hotel are lovely, I ask about the flags: there’s a festival on
in town his weekend. Oh yeah! We were told about that on our flight here. Are we
not also going to it? Due to the weather it was actually cancelled last night.
The weather here must have been even more dramatic than what we experienced in
Dubrovnik. “It’s very unusual we never have weather like that in the summer.”

We are shown to our room. Chocolates! Yay for being on our honeymoon. After the
customary hotel inspection (cute balcony, shower, small hotel) by Martina we
waste little time before heading out for a wander around the town.

Froggyland sounds interesting, we’ll have to go there. Huge courtyard lots of
people seated at restaurants. We find the waterfront, grab a slice of pizza each
and sit on the sea wall. Nom, nom, nom, “did you fart?” I put it down to
pollution and try not to breathe too much while eating.

We take a very leisurely stroll along the promenade, look at a few tat stalls
and grab a beer at a nice looking people watching spot facing the water. More
flags, we play name the flag. Also out in force are t-shirt slogans, Martina
points out that they are all terrible, so we upgrade people watching to spot the
most rubbish t-shirt. Some of the people are just walking the length of the prom
over and over, I think I see a pair of older chaps chattering with hands behind
their back or gesticulating, pass our spot at least 4 times.

After sunset we wander past a stage into Diocletian's palace, interesting stalls
filled with tourist tat. Behind that a maze of streets, squares, interesting
buildings and hub-bub. There’s a singer/guitarist in one of the main squares,
cushions on the steps, people drinking wine. Egyptian looking statues, baffling
clock, then on a small park square some interesting sounding live music.

The square has a tall statue over it. The bars have the same statue playing a
guitar. Funny! We grab a beer, perch on a ledge and watch the band. TIny bit
reminiscent for me of watching opera singers in the italian square in Mendoza
last year. We have a chuckle about that.

After that band we wander back to the sea front to the other stage we’d seen.
Band playing covers, they are OK. Crowd are more lively, I go fetch a couple
cans in a corner shop and we watch their last song and take a seat overlooking
the bay.

Oh dear, is that chap going to jump into the water? Why’s he stood there? Oh,
we’ve found the “I can’t be arsed to find the toilet” spot. Every 5 minutes,
same spot, another customer.

Having decided we can’t watch lads pissing all night (or possibly due to
finishing our drink) we take a wander back to the hotel. The guy on the desk is
amazing, really friendly, even more so than the really friendly staff earlier.
We ask him all sorts of questions and he answers or looks up answers. We’re told
the name of the band we saw in the square, who we’re told are Dutch. Local band
there tomorrow.
