---
title: "Trip to Dubrovnik"
description: "Honeymoon Day 1"
date: 2016-07-12T00:00:00+01:00
draft: true
---
We’re on our honeymoon! To celebrate we’ve splashed out: although there isn’t
first class to take advantage of at great expense, there is priority boarding
and seats by the emergency exit (with an extra few inches of legroom) available
for a few extra quid each. Our neighbour for this afternoon's flight is Brian.
Brian seems to be quite tall, he probably needs to get the seat with extra
legroom just to fit on the plane.

Brian enquires whether we’re also going to the festival. “Not yet” we think.
Plane still on the tarmac I lookup the Ultra festival lineup on my phone, lots
of acts I’ve not heard of, but some I have, and like, including the Prodigy,
this sounds good! Martina points out that Prodigy are playing in March and it’s
currently July, turns out I’m looking at the USA event. This time looking at the
correct Ultra europe lineup, a similar long list of acts I’ve not heard of,
little or none that I have heard of and this time without the Prodigy. Oh well,
perhaps next year.

Due to some form of pre-arranged delay, which the app on my phone seems to have
taken into account, although “takeoff” hadn’t officially delayed, we were
expected to land into Dubrovnik an hour later than scheduled. After boarding and
parking up next to the runway the captain explains what’s going on. Delighted
that we’re on our honeymoon, happy for the extra reading time and basking in the
glory of our extra legroom, Martina and I are unphased.

It’s dark outside when we touchdown. We book onto the transfer coach and snake
along the coast road from the airport to the city. We see small towns and lights
from small boats in the bay. The roadside is otherwise fairly dark. The coach
climbs quite high up. Out the window we see an enormous cruise ship, then a
second. We must be getting close. A little further along and we’re looking down
at the lights of the walled city, this looks impressive. The coach descends and
drives right next to the outer walls and bridges. This looks even more enormous
and impressive up close.

Just outside the city walls the coach pulls up and most people get off. Ours is
the next stop, by the modern port. A short taxi ride to our hotel, we pass boats
at first, then climb a hill. A lot of hill, then some more, we’re thankful we
didn’t attempt the walk.

I’m sure the guy says something about floor 10 when we check-in. We get in the
lift and press 10 and the doors open again. I look around for somewhere to beep
the keycard thinking we need to persuade the lift to move and none is apparent.
We repeat this a couple of times until Martina points out that we should
probably be trying the 5th floor as our room is #505. This time the lift
actually starts moving: downwards. Turns out reception is on the top floor.

In our room a bucket of bubbly in a (melted, though cold) ice bucket. Unused to
the perks of being on a honeymoon, or even a hotel rather than a hostel, I get
embarrassed and ask Martina to check this is actually a complimentary bottle.
She calls up and is congratulated on the phone by reception. It is, silly me.

We decide to sit on the balcony and enjoy our gift from the hotel. Without
seemingly any effort the cork launches into the sky. I had expected to have to
wrestle with it a little. After a long time we hear a noise, possibly the cork
landing far away in water.

We drink, watch the lights from across the bay shimmer on the water and watch
the moon set over the horizon to the right. P.S We also thought we were locked
out on the balcony as we were struggling for some time to get back in, whilst in
the midst of panic, don peers over to our neighbour asking how to open the door,
she just said slide it (really?! haha) after some time the door miraculously
opened after a champagne glass was smashed in the process (no we’re not in
Greece!)
