---
title: "Split Walking Tour"
description: "Honeymoon Day 6"
date: 2016-07-17 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
---

All the excitement of our first breakfast in the new hotel: how does this toaster work? Are these corn flakes any good? Where are the spoons? We (as is perhaps customary for most of the honeymoon at this stage) take a seat outside. Smallish garden in a square behind the hotel, with a ramped, wheelchair friendly footpath cutting through diagonally from in front of a church on the left hand side to the back door towards the right; grass one side; tables and chairs the other.

There’s a splendid mixture of guests, old people, young people, young families, and a small group of lads in their 20s wearing vests (more American sport than Die Hard), peaked caps who are attending the festival, probably having a little breakfast before heading to bed for a few hours kip.

Several visits to the buffet and a few cuppa teas later we return to the room, wash, dress, fill up water bottles and generally get ready for a walking tour. Martina has found an interesting sounding tour which starts from the same square we saw the Dutch band on last night. The information on the website indicates that this was meant to be the Split free walking tour, however unfortunately due to rules in Croatia, they are not allowed to do walking tours for free and have to charge. We discuss how unusual this seems and share theories on why this might be the case.

Geeky segue: Every time we’ve paid for something while in Croatia so far, every time, we’ve been given a receipt. Furthermore, should you study these receipts, as I have done, you may notice there are a pair of what appear to be either GUIDs or something similar. GUID is an acronym for Globally Unique Identifier, a series of letters (A to F) and numbers (0 to 9) which can be generated by a computer, on the fly, that have the magical property of being unique to any other GUID ever generated. When you get a GUID, statistically speaking, imagine it’s a lottery number for a lottery that nobody ever wins because when they get the GUID out of the lottery machine, that too is unique. Though it’s not as sad as a lottery that is never won, instead it’s a lottery that you win every time: though instead of a stash of cash, you win a unique hexadecimal number. Congratulations! This intrigued me and I looked up the respective acronyms associated with these two possibly GUID numbers and it seems that, to my geeky delight, they are part of a system whereby regular customers serve as tax inspectors: any receipt you are given can be cross-referenced online to ensure the tax was paid.

Any free walking tours I’ve ever been on are actually paid for, whether by a local authority (as was the case for the Bear tour in Yosemite park) or most typically by tips (in which case I imagine some form of monetary natural selection finds a way of feeding back to ensure the quality of the guides is such that one is compelled to tip). Joining several very tentative dots: perhaps a law to insist walking tours are paid for takes advantage of a healthy tourism sector and avoids what otherwise would be a tricky tax loophole. Either way, well done Croatia, I cannot imagine how monumental such a scheme would be to implement back home in the UK.

Ahem, end of geeky segue.

Now that we’re getting the hang of the layout of Split, we get to the square very quickly. We find the walking tour meeting point beside the large statue and are directed inside the city walls to the office to purchase our tickets. The staff are fun, they have a small tourist-tat version of the statue, this time doing something else amusing so we ask a little detail about him.

Back outside, equipped with our receipt, we join the walking tour. Our guide, Darko,  tells us a little about himself, he studied history and used to be a history teacher, he was born here in Split and loves the place and can’t wait to tell us more. To get to know the group he asks some demographic questions and who has been where so far on their trip. We’re also asked which of the group are Game of Thrones fans.

To start with we’re given a very brief, though thorough overview of the entire history of Split. Darko takes a bow and walks off. Actually very impressive and were I to do this tour again I’d video that bit. He actually doesn’t walk very far, mock completion. He asks a question to the group about the statue, we know the answer and so respond. I think the teacher is pleased with us.

The statue is an impressive size, it seems old (not classical greek/roman looking though), but is relatively new from the 1920s. This is Gregory of Nin. He’s reading a book and gesticulating. This is a very important character to the history of Croatia: many many years ago he was the first person to preach in Croatian instead of Latin. This made Christianity far more accessible and the language far more respected. Without him the language may have vanished and so he’s part of the national identity.

That said, we don’t have any photographs from 1100ish years ago, nor any contemporary statues of this fella, so this statue has a face which looks suspiciously/unashamedly like the sculptor. Brilliant! Clever bugger is even on one of the Croatian monetary notes as Gregory.

One of the most interesting, most successful Roman emperors retired here in Split: Diocletian. Retiring as a Roman emperor was unprecedented: Roman emperors all died of natural causes; died of unnatural murder causes; or very very occasionally in battle. Diocletian however was different, he took charge of the empire at a very chaotic time when it was almost certainly ready to implode, stabilised, ran the show for 20 years and handed in his notice.

I shared what I knew: after retiring he proudly grew cabbages here. Darko very tactfully responded indicating that while that wasn’t necessarily untrue, Diocletian still wielded a hefty influence even in his retirement.

We’re shown a map of the original plans for Diocletian's (retirement) palace, Darko talks through the original layout and explains how things have been repurposed over the years. The exterior walls were and are still laid out in a square. Originally the insides were further divided into four squares. This is in reference to the cult of Diocletian who divided the whole empire into four. He and his co-emperors were the Tetrarchy. Many aspects of the palace consequently use fours to enshrine the Tetrarchy.

We’re taken up to the walls, we’re shown which bits have been painstakingly restored, and which have the best part of 2 millenias worth of grime still visible. There’s statues around the entrance gate: four of them.

We’re shown around inside, much is now thin medieval streets, we’re shown the original wider Roman bits and told the stories of how it’s developed over the years. There are a few vehicles to look out for: the electric donkey; the rubbish collector - which is the only petrol powered vehicle allowed in the city.

Interleaved with the factual history is the fictional history: here they filmed a scene from series [blah] episode [blah] of Game of Thrones, when [someone] did [something]. Filming took 3 days, the street was blocked off for 5 days and the scene was 3 minutes.

In the middle is the vault where Diocletian was buried. He’s not there any more, he was evicted. Relatively soon after Diocletian's reign the Roman empire became Christian. Prior to that however, it was periodically popular policy to persecute the Christians, Diocletian included. He wasn’t loved for this fact and so they put bones of the saints that died on his watch into his tomb instead. Also a tower was built next door, mostly for the purpose of being higher than the tomb, which prior to that was the tallest thing around. More buildings, borrowed Egyptian statues. Capers growing on the walls.

Towards the front, underground we’re shown the structure, the 3 different types of stone: Opus quadratum, big rectangular stone. Opus mixtum, brick and rock combination. Travertine, carbon based material from carat rivers. There’s a market in here now, you can buy a painting of the Beatles with a donkey.

Outside the old palace but still clearly the old city is the more recent main square, it has three town halls: Venetian; Renaissance and Austro-Hungarian. There’s a few notable reliefs with comical interpretations. A lazy mayor who had a bridge built from his room to the town hall, his name had something to do with dolphin and so there was a small relief of a dolphin to be spotted. There’s the clock we couldn’t understand from the previous day: it’s a 24 hour clock.

Martina and I were 2 of 3 that stayed on for the extended part of the tour, same guide, also splendid, included Venetian shop fronts: L shaped (or reverse L shaped) with an entrance on one side and a shelf for wares across the remainder of the shop front.

On the sea front the different layers of different eras of the building are visible. Currently now we’re in an era of being proud of the old roman walls, though in the 1920s the fashion was to hide them with what was then modern.

Robert Adam a Scottish architect, we’re told was hugely inspired by Split when he built the Adelphi buildings (now demolished) in London. Adelphi means brotherhood.

After the tour we got a pizza slice, sat down for a fizzy pop soft drink and then went for a crepe with šlag ([tee hee] which translates to whipped cream). All at different points around the medieval square. We climbed the tower, I banged my head. We relaxed at the top taking in the view of the city skyline.

We travel around in decreasing sized circles looking for a postbox, eventually found attached to a hotel that was on our shortlist of places to stay. Roughly opposite was a street side people watching spot of a bar. We sit down to enjoy a little shelter and get a beer each. The pizza here looks tasty, so we order one, and some more beer.

With the intent of one day writing this diary, we share memories of the honeymoon so far and collect brief notes on the back of a receipt.

It’s a lovely spot, we’re having fun so I offer to teach Martina a card game. I wander around looking for a tat shop that might sell playing cards, seemed overly difficult when I finally found one. Rummy, a set of 4 and a set of 3, same number or adjacent numbers of the same suit. Martina is a natural, I think she’s hustling me. On the rare occasion that she loses, she checks the forthcoming cards to see how long it would have been until she got the one she’s after. I think she’s counting cards.

In the evening we went back to Gregory’s square and enjoyed the band, this time we managed to secure a pair of seats on the garden chairs by one of the bars (which gave receipts). The band were excellent, we bought a CD after. Back at the hotel, same guy as previous evening, we expressed our thanks especially for his friendliness and wished him well as we’re hitting the road tomorrow. Thanks Josep, top dude!
