---
title: "Plitvice Lakes"
description: "Honeymoon Day 8"
date: 2016-07-19 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
draft: true
---

The alarm goes off at 5am, it’s quite stuffy and warm. We slowly potter about
getting ready, making sure we have all that we need for the day ahead. Before
hitting the road we call in to the shop to get breakfast. It’s the same staff as
was there when the shop was closing last night, well done them for remaining
pleasant.

I notice the restaurant with breakfast appears open and ready, something we
hadn’t anticipated this early on. We opt to set off regardless and make the most
of being at the lakes early.

It’s a short drive to Plitvice, we skip the first entrance and park in car park
2 based on trip advisor recommendations. We do a lap looking for the car park,
there isn’t one, you just park on the side of the roads oops. It’d be clearer
but there are so few cars here at this hour we don’t realise. Once parked up we
buy tickets and start the journey down to the lakes. It’s a fair trek before we
see any water, perhaps 15 to 20 minutes, all downhill. Once we pass an
information checkpoint, we go down the last set of steps to the lake. The water
is very clear, there are fishes hanging out. We take a boat which we take and
crosses the short distance of water to the other side. Straight away on the
other side we can see water cascading into the lake over greenery. We take the
elevated wooden decking walkway up beside and above the cascading water.

There’s beautiful nature at its finest in every direction everywhere you stop.
Although there were a few handfuls of people on the boat, we’re virtually alone.
We collect photos and admire the views. Martina, eagle eyes for animals, points
out small pretty creatures stood on the water. Fish too, and a few birds. Lots
of trees and general greenery.

The first section seems to be a steady rhythm of climbing between 5 and 30 steps
among small waterfalls, then flat for a while at a small lake, then climb again.
Each opening unique and a delight to admire. Sometimes with handrail, often not.

Once we get a bit higher there’s larger lakes. The water is very still with a
crisp reflection of the trees and sky. The path changes to being typically earth
instead of the wooden walkways. We start to see people coming in the other
direction, this must mean that the busses have started running.

Our conversation is mostly “wow, look” and cuddling. Awesome place to be. The
waterfalls start to be larger, with a good sized drop and spray making the air
moist. One point the decking underfoot is pretty soaked from the spray. It’s all
a delight to look at. Do we take photos? Just look and enjoy? Slow down to take
it in? Speed up to see more?

Some of the route goes through water with tall reeds or long grass, something
tight enough that you can’t see through it. It’s very quiet in here. Out the
other side after another small climb is a large lake. We can see waterfalls on
the other side but they are far enough away that we can’t hear them. Very
occasionally we pass people coming in the other direction. There are a few spots
where the water has spilled over onto the walkway. Sometimes with a small amount
of wooden decking over the top, sometimes not. We pass the tricky bits climbing
up on the side and holding onto trees.

We find another section that has high plants on one side, and on the other the
water is shallow with big fish. Martina points out the distinctive colours on
the fish, they all have similar markings. After walking along this for a little
while we notice that we’ve gone off course compared to where we had meant to go
and so turned around and backtracked a little.

Bit of a climb, a waterfall this time one we look down at instead of up at and
we’re at the top. There’s a toilet, benches and a bus stop. We decide to have
our breakfast at one of the benches. Soon after we aim back down to the boat via
the other side of the lakes. We pass a large lake on our left that the map
indicates is the highest of the network and curl around through tree lined
walkways. I even recall the spot where we went in the wrong direction, we saw a
couple had taken a high road seemingly away from the water and we stayed close
to the banks.

Wrong direction is a little strong, there are no wrong directions here, we saw
more delicious scenery, though instead of ending up down back at the boat as
intended, we circled the lake near the top, back along the pathway we’d
previously also detoured down on the way up.

Back at the top again we took the bus down this time. I had a light snooze. Back
at the starting blocks we took the short ferry across the water, certainly
busier this time though not rammed. Then we took the longer boat trip all the
way to the other end of the lakes.

The boat ride was lovely, sun getting warmer, park getting busier. Once we get
off at the other end I navigate us the wrong way and we find the bins. Back on
track we treat ourselves to ice cream and head down towards the big waterfall.

There are a fair number of small pretty waterfalls, this time we approach them
from the top and descend alongside them. As such we do a lot of stopping and
looking back up at the waterfalls. Some are relatively narrow. Others much
broader with pockets of cascading water. I notice that the sign meaning “don’t
walk here” always has someone behind it taking a selfie or having a touristic
snap taken.

It’s really getting busy now. You have to watch where you’re walking, and more
importantly where others are walking. There’s no handrail, I’m actually
surprised we’ve not seen anyone fall in the drink.

There’s a cave with steep steps, Martina holds the fort at the bottom while I
climb the steps on the right to explore. It’s much cooler inside, very busy with
people traffic. I attempt a floor timer selfie, probably with someone walking
between me and the camera. Expecting the same I skip exploring the cave to the
left and we continue along the trail.

We pass a quite broad, very long flat lake, there are birds and fishes. In the
distance on the other side there are equally busy walkways, but far enough away
you’d not notice unless you were looking carefully. Another section of higher
than head height long grass conceals the next cascades and contains a walkway to
the right, we continue ahead following signs for the biggie.

Eventually we encounter a view into a valley, of course with water tumbling down
into it from several different angles and a very pretty spot. Mercifully there’s
a handrail here. We spend a good while pointing out small interesting parts of
the scenery to one another “can you see that?” Very pretty. Martina says it’s
her favourite spot, I think it might be mine too.

Around the corner is the big one, lots of people, although not so many behind
the “don’t walk here” signs this time, reason being there’s a well placed rock
for standing on with the entire waterfall behind you, including an also
perfectly placed queueing rock beside it, with a queue of people and constant
snaps being taken, not unlike the photos on a theme park ride.

We tuck into our packed lunch and Martina confesses that the big one might be
her least favourite of the park so far. All the same there’s plenty to look at.
It’s a large cliff face, with a very uneven surface. Although taller than it is
wide, it’s quite wide, and so the water is spread out across it. There are lots
of little streams of waterfall, but if you take a very soft focus there are
perhaps 3 main arteries at the top, splitting across the earthy features to
perhaps 5 after half way down.

Reflecting on Martina’s ranking, I wonder whether it’s to do with the midday
sun: everything looks prettier when the sun is coming in at an angle, very
notably at sunset & sunrise, and now it’s the opposite, it’s beating down from
straight above us. Or perhaps there’s just so much of it, that it somehow isn’t
as charming. Who knows?

Back on the trail we stop again at the pretty view over the valley and plot a
course for the zig zag we can see across to the right snaking up the hillside.
We go across the walkway through the reeds and begin the climb.

At the end of the first zig, we stop and look out into the water, there’s
fishes, looks lovely. Martina points out the colour is in the same place as the
cousins up the top, but it’s a different colour. As we start to leave I notice
some excited pointing and shouting where we were just looking and eventually see
what caused the commotion and point it out to Martina - a snake, cool! Can
snakes swim? Was it an eel?

At the apex of each zig and zag we look out at our new view, as we reach the top
we can see a new view on Martina’s valley and the big one at the same time, this
looks pretty awesome. We play a game of “can you see that?” again.

At the top we set off on a walkway back towards base, it’s overlooking the lakes
below though this time is the first time we’re not actually walking right beside
water. It’s all tree lined with occasional openings overlooking the lake below.
We find a lookout spot and attempt a few selfies, all with likeminded other
tourists unsuspectingly in the shot. We briefly make friends with a couple, one
from Venezuela, the other from New York, they offer to take a touristic snap for
us and manage to get just us and the lake. Nice encounter, we offer to return
the favour but they are happy taking in the view.

There’s a hut, I clamber up a not yet fully built walkway to it and find a shop
and bus stop. It’s really hot, we indulge in a fizzy drink and rest. A bus pulls
up and we indulge in a being-transported. I probably have a little snooze again
on the journey.

It’s been a busy day, Martina politely suggests we consider heading home. I’m
resistant “awww, what about this bit?” I ask pointing to one of the many areas
we’d not gotten to explore. Sweet as ever Martina concedes to one more excursion
and we head back down to the boat.

Oh no, across the water, waiting to get on the boat is a vast number of people,
perhaps 3 or more boats worth. I get a bout of queue-phobia and confess to
Martina that maybe she was right that we should call it a day. Only problem is
we’ve just descended what now is going to be a big-ol-climb.

It’s fine though, just around the corner is a cafe. Tea, for me, hot chocolate
for Martina and chips for us both, a light snack before heading upwards and
homewards.

After the climb back to the car park, we check out the gift shop and hit the
road.

After a very tiring day I fetch a takeaway pizza from the restaurant, we munch
it in the room and enjoy a well earned sleep.
